polkit-default-privs(5)
=======================

NAME
----
polkit-default-privs - configuration of polkit security profiles

DESCRIPTION
-----------
The files _/usr/etc/polkit-default-privs.*_ define different security profiles
that influence the authorization required for various polkit actions used
across applications. These files are line based and whitespace delimited.

Lines starting with `#` are comments. Comments and empty lines will be
ignored. All other lines consist of two whitespace delimited columns _ACTION_
and _AUTHORIZATION_. The _ACTION_ column specifies the polkit action name to
configure the default polkit authorization settings for.

The _AUTHORIZATION_ column consists of colon separated fields of the form
_ANY-USER:INACTIVE-CONSOLE:ACTIVE-CONSOLE_. Each of the fields can have one of
the values `auth_admin`, `auth_admin_keep`, `auth_self`, `auth_self_keep`,
`no` and `yes`. For the meaning of these values see polkit(8). The field
_ACTIVE-CONSOLE_ determines the authorization required for active users on a
local console. The field _INACTIVE-CONSOLE_ determines the authorization
required for inactive users on a local console (e.g. a locked graphical
session). The field _ANY-USER_ determines the authorization required for all
others users (e.g. remotely logged in via SSH). If all three fields carry the
same value then the column can be shortened to a single field without a
separating colon. This setting will then apply to all three field types.

Changes in these files don't take effect immediately. The settings need to be
converted into polkit java script code. This can be achieved by calling
set_polkit_default_privs(8).

PROFILE TYPES
-------------

There exist three profile types for setting polkit default privileges.  The
selection of the profile is performed via the setting `POLKIT_DEFAULT_PRIVS`
in _/etc/sysconfig/security_. The following profile types exist:

- *restrictive*: conservative settings that require the root user password for
  a lot of actions and disable certain actions completely for remote users.
  This should only be used on systems where security requirements are high and
  for experienced users. Usability can suffer a bit, especially on desktop
  systems, so custom tuning of polkit rules might become necessary.

- *standard*: balanced settings that restrict sensitive actions to require
  root authentication but allow less dangerous operations for regular logged
  in users. This should be used on server systems or multi-user systems.

- *easy*: settings that are focused on ease of use. This sacrifices security
  to some degree to allow a more seamless user experience without
  interruptions in the workflow due to password prompts. This should only be
  used for single-user desktop systems.

- *local*: this is a custom profile that can be used on top of the predefined
  profiles. Configuration items from this profile always take precedence and
  thus override the predefined profiles. Therefore this profile can be
  customized to loosen or tighten certain polkit actions.

EXAMPLES
--------

*org.spice-space.lowlevelusbaccess auth_admin:auth_self:yes*

This line configures the org.spice-space.lowlevelusbaccess polkit action to
require admin authentication for remote users, the own account password for
inactive users and no authentication for active users.

*net.connman.modify auth_admin*

This line configures the net.connman.modify polkit action to require admin
authentication for all three user context types: remote users, inactive users
and active users.

FILES
-----

`/usr/etc/polkit-default-privs.local` is a template for:

`/etc/polkit-default-privs.local`

`/usr/etc/polkit-default-privs.restrictive`

`/usr/etc/polkit-default-privs.standard`

`/usr/etc/polkit-default-privs.easy`

`/etc/polkit-default-privs.d/*`

SEE ALSO
--------
set_polkit_default_privs(8), polkit(8)

AUTHORS
-------

Written by Ludwig Nussel <ludwig.nussel@suse.de>

Man page written by Matthias Gerstner <matthias.gerstner@suse.de>

REPORTING BUGS
--------------
Report bugs to https://bugzilla.suse.com/
